## Notice

> The techniques and methods discussed in this blog are intended for educational purposes only, and should not be used without proper training, authorization, and legal consent. Any unauthorized or illegal use of these techniques may result in severe legal consequences, including criminal charges and civil lawsuits. The author of this blog assumes no responsibility or liability for any misuse or harm resulting from the use of the information provided. It is important to use caution and conduct penetration testing only with proper authorization and legal safeguards in place.

## Introduction

macof is used to flood a local network switch with MAC addresses. Normally, network switches maintain a MAC table to keep track of MAC addresses. However, when macof is executed, it floods the switch with a multitude of MAC addresses, causing the switch to enter a failure open mode. In this mode, the switch becomes uncertain about where to send data and ends up broadcasting the data to all connected devices on the network. This technique is commonly employed for executing a MAC flooding attack, and macof is part of the Dsniff suite toolset, specifically designed to overflow the MAC address table of a switch.

## Usage

### Basic Usage

The option `-n` is used to specify the number of packets to send.

```sh
macof -i eth0 -n 10000
```

### Specify the Source/Destination IP Address

The default source IP and destination IP are both `0.0.0.0`, use option `-s` to specify the source IP address, and option `-d` to specify the destination IP address.

```sh
macof -i eth0 -s 192.168.0.255
```

```sh
macof -i eth0 -d 192.168.0.100
```

### Specify the Source/Destination Port

Use option `-x` to specify the TCP source port, and option `-y` to specify the destination TCP port.

```sh
macof -i eth0 -x 54
```

```sh
macof -i eth0 -d 54
```

## Details

### Configuration Options

```
NAME
    macof - flood a switched LAN with random MAC addresses

SYNOPSIS
    macof [options]

OPTIONS
    -i interface
        Specify the interface to send on.

    -s src
        Specify source IP address.

    -d dst
        Specify destination IP address.

    -e tha
        Specify target hardware address.

    -x sport
        Specify TCP source port.

    -y dport
        Specify TCP destination port.

    -n times
        Specify the number of packets to send.
```

## Source

<ul class="public-article-references">
    <li>GitLab - <a href="https://salsa.debian.org/pkg-security-team/dsniff/-/blob/debian/master/macof.c" target="_blank">https://salsa.debian.org/pkg-security-team/dsniff/-/blob/debian/master/macof.c</a></li>
</ul>

## References

<ul class="public-article-references">
    <li>MAC Flooding with MACOF & some major countermeasures, Kali Tutorial - <a href="https://kalilinuxtutorials.com/macof/" target="_blank">https://kalilinuxtutorials.com/macof/</a></li>
</ul>